Add security considerations (#13)
decentralized-identity/linked-vp: spec/spec.md

Currently, the only way an application or web service can access VCs of a DID is to use a data exchange protocol like
[OpenID4VC](https://openid.net/openid4vc/) or [DIDComm](https://didcomm.org/) to request and receive the desired
credential. While this data exchange is important for VCs that shall be kept private, [Holders][holder] might desire to
make other VCs public. For public VCs the required data exchange increases the complexity of applications that want to
discover and access these VCs because the application would need to implement a data exchange protocol.

## Potential Use Cases

- Linking an official business registration credential (if there was such a thing) to a DNS name to reduce the burden of
  verifying the authenticity of a website.
- Making the mandatory imprint page on a website machine readable by self-issuing an imprint credential and connecting
  it to the DID of the website to reduce the burden of vistors to extract relevant data from the imprint page.
- for whom is this useful
  - public entities
  - long-lived identifiers

> - publicly proof ownership over a domain name - Well-known DID Configuration + published published credential

Reviewer: I think this still needs some wordsmithing but this is a bit better
```suggestion
- public proof ownership over a domain name - Well-known DID Configuration + published credential
```

Author: Thanks, yes, I'm with you. This section is still raw. I created #21 to update it.

| Verifiable Presentation        | A way to combine and present credentials. It is defined by [[spec:VC-DATA-MODEL]].                                                                                                                           |

## Linked Verifiable Presentation Service Endpoint

To enable the public discovery of verifiable presentations and verifiable credentials for a DID, there must exist a DID
Document mechanism for expressing locations where verifiable presentations MAY be located. To that end, the following
section codifies the `LinkedVerifiablePresentations` service endpoint. The endpoint allows a DID controller to publish
and link verifiable presentations with verifiable credentials that SHALL be publicly associated with the DID.
Presentations referenced within the `LinkedVerifiablePresentations` endpoint descriptor can then be crawled by verifying
parties to locate and verify any presentation resources that may exist.

The DID Controller MAY include the parameters `challenge` and `domain` in the URL of the service endpoint and proof of

> the referenced Verifiable Presentation to mitigate replay attacks. If present, a [verifier][verifier] SHOULD include the

Reviewer: > If present, a [verifier][verifier] SHOULD include

This should be a MUST imo

Reviewer: I do wonder if replay attacks are of concern in the case of public presentations.. Will think more on this

Author: > > If present, a [verifier][verifier] SHOULD include
> 
> This should be a MUST imo

I tried to mimic the VC spec that doesn't tell the implementer what they must do when it comes to the verification. Instead, the spec focuses on enforcing the data model / data types. What do you think?

Author: > I do wonder if replay attacks are of concern in the case of public presentations.. Will think more on this

Maybe there's a better term for it. The issue I'm trying to mitigate is that a hosting provider could swap out the presentation for an old one without anyone noticing, i.e. "replay" an old presentation to the public audience.

    "expirationDate": "2025-12-04T14:08:28-06:00",
    "type": [
      "VerifiableCredential",
      "DomainLinkageCredential"
    ],
    "credentialSubject": {
      "id": "did:key:z6MkoTHsgNNrby8JzCNQ1iRLyW5QQ6R8Xuu6AA8igGrMVPUM",
      "origin": "https://identity.foundation"
    },
    "proof": {
      "type": "Ed25519Signature2018",
      "created": "2020-12-04T20:08:28.540Z",
      "jws": "eyJhbGciOiJFZERTQSIsImI2NCI6ZmFsc2UsImNyaXQiOlsiYjY0Il19..D0eDhglCMEjxDV9f_SNxsuU-r3ZB9GR4vaM9TYbyV7yzs1WfdUyYO8rFZdedHbwQafYy8YOpJ1iJlkSmB4JaDQ",
      "proofPurpose": "assertionMethod",
      "verificationMethod": "did:key:z6MkoTHsgNNrby8JzCNQ1iRLyW5QQ6R8Xuu6AA8igGrMVPUM#z6MkoTHsgNNrby8JzCNQ1iRLyW5QQ6R8Xuu6AA8igGrMVPUM"
    }
  }],
  "proof": [{
    "type": "Ed25519Signature2020",
    "created": "2023-12-01T08:19:39Z",
    "verificationMethod": "did:example:123#_Qq0UL2Fq651Q0Fjd6TvnYE-faHiOpRlPVQcY_-tA4A",
    "challenge": "hGa8Vx5JPt",
    "domain": "bar.example.com",
    "proofPurpose": "assertionMethod",
    "proofValue": "z58DAdFfa9SkqZMVPxAQpic7ndSayn1PzZs6ZjWp1CktyGesjuTSwRdoWhAfGFCF5bppETSTojQCrfFPP2oumHKtz"
  }]
}
```

## Privacy Considerations

_This section is non-normative_

> Since this specification is designed to make verifiable data about a DID publicly discoverable, privacy implications of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since this specification is designed to make verifiable data about a DID publicly discoverable, privacy implications
```

are important to consider. The publication of verifiable data about a DID is a voluntary decision by the credential
[holder][holder] and requires an update of the DID document that is under the control of the DID controller. Therefore,
the publication of verifiable data is a user-centric decision and upholds the principles of Privacy by Design
[PRIVACY-BY-DESIGN](#ref:PRIVACY-BY-DESIGN).

> Outside of this specification and these privacy considerations is the publication of verifiable data about the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This specification does not recommend the publication of verifiable data about the
```

[holder's][holder] DID by a third-party, for example by an [issuer][issuer] or [verifier][verifier].

### Spectrum of Privacy

_This section is non-normative_

> Verifiable Credentials [[spec:VC-DATA-MODEL]] support the full privacy spectrum ranging from pseudonymous to strongly
> identified. The Linked Verifiable Presentations specification strives to support the full privacy spectrum and does not

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Verifiable Credentials [[spec:VC-DATA-MODEL]] accommodate a wide range of privacy levels from pseudonymous to strongly
identifiable. The Linked Verifiable Presentations specification strives to support the full privacy spectrum and does not
```

take philosophical positions on the correct level of anonymity for any specific link. The following sections provide
guidance for implementers who want to avoid specific scenarios that are hostile to privacy.

### Personally Identifiable Information

_This section is non-normative_

DID documents and the verifiable credentials data model are highly structured. It is expected that any linked verifiable
presentation and credential will be indexed. In addition, any verifiable credential must contain the identifier of the
[issuer][issuer] that could also be de-anonymized and tracked by the publication of the credential. Therefore,

> [holders][holder] are _RECOMMENDED_ not to publish verifiable credentials that contain personally identifying data or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[holders][holder] are _RECOMMENDED_ not to publish verifiable credentials that contain personally identifiable data or
```

data that can be used to correlate and track them or the [issuer][issuer].

### Selective Disclosure

_This section is non-normative_

A [holder][holder] might want to withhold information that is part of a Verifiable Credential they want to publish.
[Issuers][issuer] are _RECOMMENDED_ to support selective disclosure in issued credentials to grant [holders][holder] the

> ability to make fine-grained decisions about the information will be publicly available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ability to make fine-grained decisions about the information that will be publicly available.
```

## Security Considerations

_This section is non-normative_

### Acceptable Use

_This section is non-normative_

A [holder][holder] has the power to publish any verifiable credential they are holding. Before including a credential in

> a linked verifiable presetation the [holder][holder] is _RECOMMENDED_ to consider the constraints that are imposed by

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a linked verifiable presentation the [holder][holder] is _RECOMMENDED_ to consider the constraints that are imposed by
```

the [issuer][issuer].

[Issuers][issuer] are _RECOMMENDED_ to utilize the mechanisms provided by the verifiable credentials data model

> [[spec:VC-DATA-MODEL]] to express constraints for issued credenditals. For example, the properties `expirationDate` and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[[spec:VC-DATA-MODEL]] to express constraints for issued credentials. For example, the properties `expirationDate` and
```

`termsOfUse` can be used to control or limit the public linking of credentials.

### Limiting Validity of Verifiable Presentations

_This section is non-normative_

> Linked Verifeable Presentations are accessible and verifiable by anyone and they might be accessible at the given URL

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Linked Verifiable Presentations are accessible and verifiable by anyone and they might be accessible at the given URL
```

indefinitely. A [holder][holder] might therefore desire to limit the validity of a presentation. This can be achieved by
utilizing the `expires` property that is an optional element of `proof` property as specified in
[[VC-DATA-INTEGRITY]](#ref:VC-DATA-INTEGRITY).

### Verification of Linked Presentations

_This section is non-normative_

Unlike the interactive exchange of credentials between [holder][holder] and [verifier][verifier], linked verifiable
presentations are statically linked and published by the [holder][holder]. Any entity that knows the [holder's][holder]
DID is able to discover, access and verify the linked presentations without interaction between [holder][holder] and
[verifier][verifier]. This flow requires additional caution from the [holder][holder] to ensure the integrity,

> authenticity and currentness of linked presentations. In addition to the security mechanisms of verifiable credentials

Reviewer: ```suggestion
authenticity and timeliness of linked presentations. In addition to the security mechanisms of verifiable credentials
```

and presentations [[VC-DATA-INTEGRITY]](#ref:VC-DATA-INTEGRITY) the `challenge` and `domain` search parameters in the

> linked presentation URL can help the [holder][holder] to increase the level of protection.

Reviewer: >  to increase the level of protection

how?

Author: In commit c1461a2b3772532f21b321b636a9f04cb019c8fe I tried to explain the usefulness of the parameters. How do you like it?

Independent of the successful verification of linked presentations, [verifiers][verifier] should note that a linked
verifiable presentation only proves control over the [holder's][holder] DID at the time of link creation.
[Verifiers][verifier] SHOULD NOT grant access solely based on a linked presentation and SHOULD in addition launch a

> separate interactive request to receive prove control over the [holder's][holder] DID.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
separate interactive request to receive proof of control over the [holder's][holder] DID.
```

[verifier][verifier]. This flow requires additional caution from the [holder][holder] to ensure the integrity,
authenticity and timeliness of linked presentations. In addition to the security mechanisms of verifiable credentials
and presentations [[VC-DATA-INTEGRITY]](#ref:VC-DATA-INTEGRITY), the `challenge` and `domain` search parameters in the
linked presentation URL can help the [holder][holder] to increase the level of assurance that [verifiers][verifier] will
receive the authorized and most up to date and version of the presentation.

Independent of the successful verification of linked presentations, [verifiers][verifier] should note that a linked
verifiable presentation only proves control over the [holder's][holder] DID at the time of link creation.
[Verifiers][verifier] SHOULD NOT grant access solely based on a linked presentation and SHOULD in addition launch a
separate interactive request to receive proof of control over the [holder's][holder] DID. Furthermore,
[verifiers][verifier] SHOULD ensure that the [holder's][holder] DID is referenced as subject in every verifiable

> credential to establish whether the credential applies to the [holder][holder].

Author: @peacekeeper I added a this sentence to address your concern that holders might claim credentials that aren't theirs. Does it satisfy your concern?
